# Architecture

After writing some sample User Stories, I was able to work out the steps of what needed to happen. From there I worked on finding the best tools to implement each step. I knew in order to complete the task I would need to make a call to the test office bot, convert the answerer's voice to text, use an LLM to interpret the text and respond appropriately, convert the LLM's response to speech, send the speech back over the call, and have it reach its designated goal depending on the scenario. I also knew that conversational context and state had to be preserved in order to successfully complete the goal of the call, and the calls needed to be recorded and transcribed.

From there, I was able to work out the best tools for each job. Starting with calling capabilities, I found Twilio to be the most common solution. I have worked with Twilio for an SMS based project, so I knew generally how it worked. Next, I worked on Speech to Text conversion. I decided to go with Deepgram despite not having worked with it before, because it seemed like the best option. Next, I focused on the responses using an LLM. I chose Claude, both because I had experience using the API, and because I find Claude's responses to be the most natural. Finally, I decided on Cartesia for Text to Speech. Originally, I considered Deepgram to keep it consistent, but based on my research, ElevenLabs and Cartesia had better latency and more natural sounding speech. Ultimately, I decided on Cartesia primarily because it was the better budget option. I read that ElevenLabs had more natural sounding speech, but after testing options on both platforms, I found plenty of equally natural sounding voices on Cartesia, so I knew I wasn't sacrificing quality for budget. During my research, I found Pipecat, which had great support for each of the APIs I had chosen to work with and decided to incorporate that as well before I started working. After I began coding, I quickly realized I would need a public facing server to communicate via Twilio, so I used ngrok and I update the url in the .env file whenever the project is restarted.
